#summary A time-line of scheduled deliveries and the purpose behind each.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements

= About =
This page describes the release targets and the purpose of each.  Additionally, in brackets you can find the primary target of the release (e.g. Application is for the Paradice9 application, whereas Paradice is for the underlying framework,) and also the status of the release.

Releases follow a Features/Fixes cycle.  Implicit between the evenly-numbered releases is an odd numbered release that contains bugfixes for the preceding release.

== Release 1.0 {Application/Complete} ==
Initial release of Paradice9 with the Munin user interface.

== Release 1.2 {Application/In Progress} ==
Feature requests for Paradice9, with Issue 107 (Encounter Control) currently having the limelight.

== Release 1.4 {Paradice} ==
Incorporate multi-threading capabilities across the application and library.

== Release 1.6 {Application} ==
Addition of the 'Room' concept to allow multiple gaming sessions.

== Release 2.0 {Paradice} ==
Provide features that enable Paradice applications to service a larger range of clients.  The two primary features that provide this are terminal type detection (issue 99) and a user interface that is far less ANSI-heavy, but provides hooks for other markups and protocols that are used by the applications targeted by Paradice (e.g. [http://tintin.sourceforge.net/msdp/ MSDP], [http://tintin.sourceforge.net/mssp/ MSSP]) (issue 100).  Could also include [http://www.aardwolf.com/wiki/index.php/Clients/GMCP GMCP]/[http://www.ironrealms.com/rapture/manual/files/FeatATCP-txt.html ATCP] and Aardwolf's [http://www.aardwolf.com/blog/2008/07/10/telnet-negotiation-control-mud-client-interaction/ "Protocol 102"]

The intent of this release is to be able to announce and open the framework to public scrutiny, and possibly add additional development partners. 