#summary Describes a text protocol whereby colour codes, locales, etc.

= Introduction =

Some components may require colours or other types of manipulation.  For example, drawing a border on an image component using the extended ASCII drawing characters requires changing both the character set to G1 and the locale to SCO.

This document describes a method whereby these codes can be placed in-line in text, so that a function may convert this to an array of `element_type`.

= Details =

== Escape ==
  * \\: \

== Default ==
  * \x: set all attributes to their default values

E.g. \x

== Character Code ==

  * \C_???_
    * _???_ = 000..255: the character to display.

E.g. \C097 = the 'a' character.

== Character Set ==

  * \c_?_
    * _?_ = x: default character set (currently G0)
    * _?_ = 0: character set G0
    * _?_ = 1: character set G1

E.g. \c1

== Locale ==

  * \l_?_ (lowercase L)
    * _?_ = x: default locale (currently US ASCII)
    * _?_ = 0: DEC locale
    * _?_ = A: UK locale
    * _?_ = B: US ASCII locale
    * _?_ = U: SCO locale

E.g. \lB

== Intensity ==

  * \i_?_ 
    * _?_ = x: default intensity (currenly normal)
    * _?_ = >: bold intensity
    * _?_ = =: normal intensity
    * _?_ = <: faint intensity

E.g. \i>

== Polarity ==

  * \p_?_
    * _?_ = x: default polarity (currently positive)
    * _?_ = +: positive polarity
    * _?_ = -: negative polarity

E.g. \p-

== Underlining ==

  * \u_?_
    * _?_ = x: default underlining (currently off)
    * _?_ = +: underlining on
    * _?_ = -: underlining off

E.g. \u+

== Colours ==

=== 16-colours ===

See http://www.mudpedia.org/wiki/ANSI_colors for exact colours

  * \[_?_
    * _?_ = 0..9: change the foreground colour.

  * \]_?_
    * _?_ = 0..9: change the background colour.

E.g. {{{\[6\]0}}} (cyan on a black background)

=== 256-colours ===

See http://www.mudpedia.org/wiki/Xterm_256_colors for exact colour codes.  Note that there are three segments: overlap with the original 16 colours (the only place where true black lies), a central coloured section of 216 colours, a greyscale section of 24 colours.

==== Overlapping Colours ====
For the overlap with the original 16 colours, use the 16-colour codes above.

==== Central 216 Colours ====

  * \<_?R?G?B_
    * _?R_ = a..f: intensity of red value as foreground
    * _?G_ = a..f: intensity of green value as foreground
    * _?B_ = a..f: intensity of blue value as foreground

To match up to the colour chart, the following conversion is applied:

a..f == 0..5

colour = (_?R_ x 36) + (_?G_ x 6) + (_?B_) + 16

E.g. {{{\<fba}}}: (5 x 36) + (1 x 6) + (0) + 16 = foreground colour 202, a deep orange.

  * \>_?R?G?B_
    * _?R_ = a..f: intensity of red value as background
    * _?G_ = a..f: intensity of green value as background
    * _?B_ = a..f: intensity of blue value as background

See above for colour chart meanings.

E.g. {{{\>bdf}}}: (1 x 36) + (3 x 6) + (5) + 16 = background colour  75,  a greeny-blue.

==== Greyscale Colours ====

  * \{_?_
    * _?_ = a..x: grey intensity as foreground

a..x = 0..23

colour = _?_ + 232

E.g. {{{\{m}}}: = 12 + 232 = colour 244, a medium grey on the foreground.

  * \}_?_
    * _?_ = a..x: grey intensity as background

See above for colour chart meanings.

E.g. {{{\}x}}}: = 23 + 232 = colour 255, off-white on the background.

== Examples ==

{{{\[+1\]3\c1\lU\C201}}} = A bright red foreground, yellow background, double-lined top left corner glyph (╔).